>> Speaker 1: So CPS is some sort of
memorization where we're trying to call
Const V?
>> Kyle Simpson: If I go back to CPS for
just a moment,
I'll go back a couple of slides.
In CPS the trick is that
what we're doing is,
instead of actually making
the recursive call, doing the work now.
We're deferring the work by
wrapping it up in a function and
passing that function forward.
So none of that work
is actually happening.
You know how earlier we talked
about do the work now and
pass it along in
a variable as an argument?
Here, we're saying,
don't do work now but pass along
the function which will do the work later.
And then that one passes along another
function which we do their work later.
So that cont variable becomes a bigger and
bigger and bigger wrapped function.
None of the inner functions have ever
been called yet, but it's a bigger and
bigger and bigger wrap function all of
which are actually in tail call form.
It's all a bunch of return
return return return return.
None of the work has been done,
but we have made a bigger and
bigger function with all
that stuff closed over.
And then at the very last thing,
which is what happens on line five,
there's our base condition.
We say,
hey big giant wrapped huge function,
collapse yourself down into one value.
That's what line five does,
it calls that giant function which
[SOUND] computes all those values.
>> Speaker 1: Why have tools to translate
code to CPS if we still have the memory
issues?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well we get
around the stack issue and
they have other ways of dealing
with the heap allocation issue.
This is specifically, my comments were
specifically about JavaScript, which is
that JavaScript is getting around a stack
problem but creating a heap problem.
CPS is actually how languages
like compilers in C
deal with recursion in an optimized form.
They don't necessarily rewrite
it in to a tail call form,
they will rewrite it in to a CPS form.
And that's what the C compiler
does automatically for them.
So they have other techniques for dealing
with the memory allocation problem there.
But for us the problem is, because
they're not dealing with closure there,
like we are.
They're doing in a different way.
We're dealing with closure,
which is allocation off of the heap.
So we have a memory problem
that we have to deal with.
>> Speaker 1: What are good
trampoline libraries?
>> Kyle Simpson: You don't
need a Trampoline library.
Trampoline is a utility that will
be provided to you by your favorite
functional programming library.
Aramda has one, Low Dash has one.
Almost all the functional libraries
will have that utility that you just
pass it in.
Then they have slightly different
quirks for how they work, so
read the documentation.
But, they basically all provide
this because it is generally
one of the accepted or
preferred forms for doing recursion when
you can't take advantage of tail call.
>> Speaker 1: And can you summarize
the difference between trampoline and
regular recursion?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
The difference between a trampoline
call like what we see here and
regular recursion is that in regular
recursion we stack up the work.
We literally stack up the work.
We say you do some work, and then you
do some work, and you do some work, and
you do some work, and you do some work,
and that's growing our memory size.
In a trampoline we never
stack up the work.
We do some work here.
And then we return work
back to this helper,
this utility called trampoline,
by way of returning the function.
That's what we're doing on line 5,
we return a function.
And then the trampoline says you returned
me a function, I need to do that work.
And then we return some more work,
and then we do it.
And so we're bouncing up and
down between a stack depth of zero and
a stack depth of one, over,
and over, and over again.
We're not stacking up.
And that's the difference,
that's how we avoid that range error.
So just as by way of one
final comparison let's put
the two implementations of
countVowels next to each other.
I just want you to see that it's
not actually all that scary.
Writing a trampolinable recursive function
versus a non trampolinable version.
In the first version up on top,
we have a function countVowels,
which is tail call form.
And then in the version on the bottom
we have a trampolined version of it.
And if you notice, line 4 on top and line
2 on the bottom, they are the same line.
Line 5 on top and line 3 on
the bottom they are the same line.
Line 6 on top and line 5 on
>> Kyle Simpson: So those are exactly
the same pattern you can write a tail call
form function and then all you have to do
is insert that wrapper function line 4 and
line 6 there at the bottom.
Insert the wrapper function to return
that work and pass it to a trampoline.